>> Jem Young: All right, so
that that's fine and nginx, like I said,
it's a web server.
So we can serve static HTML pages and
all that.
But at some point,
we wanna create complex applications.
Applications that have different paths,
different ways of maybe
connect to a databas.
Just coding, kind of more akin
to what we do in our day to day.
To do that,
we're gonna create an application server.
And that's different from a web server.
And the web server's just
receiving a lot of web traffic and
doing something with it.
The application is doing
all the heavy lifting.
For our application today
we're gonna use NodeJS.
My website is built in Python using Flask,
but I won't go that route today.
Let's do NodeJS because, well,
most of us know JavaScript, I'm assuming.
If not,
there's a lot of courses on NodeJS,
will add links to those in the future.
And we'll get more into more
details into NodeJS but for
now I wanna create
the most basic web server.
>> Jem Young: What is NodeJS though?
Can someone tell me just like what it is?
And it seems like a really
simple question but
if you're asked a simple questions you're,
it's that thing that runs JavaScript.
What is NodeJS?
>> Speaker 2: JavaScript environment for
the server side.
>> Jem Young: I'll take that,
yeah, yeah, that's right.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, that but
it's also a binding for
the V8 engine that Google developed for
Chrome.
>> Jem Young: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: It's one of the most
performant just-in-time
LLVM compilers out there.
>> Jem Young: Yes, everybody had
bits of it correct and altogether,
we're all right, which is good,
that's why we're in a course.
All right, it is essentially just a
JavaScript engine that runs on top of V8,
which is developed by Google Chrome.
It's usually a few versions behind, so
Chrome has features that Node
doesn't actually support yet.
But essentially, it's a single threaded
JavaScript engine that executes
JavaScript and
can handle requests, that's it.
The single thread in this is
something that as we engineers,
we probably don't appreciate.
So, that means if a request comes in,
it can handle things being
asynchronous very very very well.
So much so that we can use that JavaScript
Lambda, of course request on block.
But in Python or Java or
in most other languages request block.
So that means if I make a single
request for a very large image file,
and that's a fetching from, I don't know,
London, it's gonna take time.
And that means every other request
that comes in is gonna get blocked,
waiting for the other requests to
resolve versus running a node.
Node is asynchronous, it says,
hey, I wanna get this image.
I'm gonna go get this image,
in the meantime,
I'm gonna go handle all
these other requests.
And that's what's known as the event loop,
is just constantly running over and
saying like, is there anything to do?
Is there anything to do?
That's a really powerful concept,
you probably won't appreciate
it to switch languages.
And you're you're dealing
with blocking requests,
you have to handle request keys and
things like that.
Whereas Node just handles that seamlessly.
That's why Node is usually my go-to when
it comes to creating a web server cuz
it just handles things really well.
Is it the fastest?
No, Java is generally gonna be faster or
Go or Rust.
Or many other languages,
it's not the fastest languages.
But if anybody wants to nerd debate you,
which people do,
just be, Node does what I need.
And most of the time you're not gonna
be limited by the speed of the engine
that is running.
It's gonna be something else,
like the code you wrote.
You will at some point gonna hear
a debate about what's better, especially,
if you get to talking to C developers and
things like that.
Sorry, that was a tangent,
let's install Node.
[LAUGH] We're gonna install
NodeJS along with npm.
So sudo apt install nodejs npm, so
install both of them at the same time.
>> Jem Young: So I'm gonna go ahead and
do that, sudo apt.
>> Jem Young: Yes.
>> Jem Young: If you're wondering
why I said NodeJS and not Node,
Node originally was a radio
application for Linux.
For the longest time, if you installed
Node it would install this application.
But people got really annoyed
at it because they're,
who uses this versus the number
of people that use Node?
So now it's just NodeJS and
it's gonna take over, if I type in Node,
it's gonna use that.
In the previous version of the class
actually had a symbolic link it back.
So I make a symbolic link
to the actual NodeJS so
Node equals Node JS,
rather than typing NodeJS every time.
Nerd trivia, didn't need to know, but
we've come a long way in JavaScript.
There's a time when Node was looked down,
it's, JavaScript's for the back end.
Now Netflix runs,
I won't say entirely on Node, but
runs largely on Node and JavaScript.
With other parts written in
various languages, mostly Java.
But don't let anybody give you crap,
if they talk about Node,
that's all I'm saying.
And we're done, and
I'm gonna install Git, too.
It's usually installed by default,
but this is future-proofing ourselves.
So oops, forgot the sudo,
sudo apt install git.
And it's usually installed already,
but just in case,
we'll make sure Git is installed.
>> Jem Young: So just apt install git for
our version in control.